---
title: 4.1 Case study 1
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

Allow-listing is a technique for implementing access control in a secure manner, by defining a list of acceptable inputs or actions and denying all others. Here are a few steps to implement allow-listing in software development, along with examples to help illustrate each step:

- **Identify the inputs that need to be validated:** In order to apply allow-listing, you first need to identify the inputs that need to be validated. This might include form inputs, user-supplied data in API calls, or any other type of data that is being passed into your application.

- **Define the acceptable inputs:** Once you have identified the inputs that need to be validated, you can define the acceptable inputs for each field. For example, you might want to allow only alphanumeric characters for a username field or limit the length of a message field to a certain number of characters.

- **Validate inputs against the allow-list:** Once you have defined the acceptable inputs, you need to validate the user-supplied data against the allow-list. This can be done using string functions, regular expressions, or other methods, depending on the programming language and libraries you are using. For example, in Python, you might use the `re` library to validate a string against a pattern.

- **Reject invalid inputs:** If the user-supplied data does not match the acceptable inputs defined in the allow-list, it should be rejected. This could be done by raising an error or exception, returning an error message to the user, or taking some other action to prevent the data from being processed further.

Here's a code example in Python to illustrate these steps:


```python
@app.route("/home", methods=['POST'])
def home():
    filename = isAllowed(request.form['filename'])
    content = readFileContent(filename)
    return render_template("index.html", read=content)

def isAllowed(filename):
    list = ["default.txt", "intro.txt", "other-text.txt"]
    return "default.txt" if not filename in list else filename

def readFileContent(filename):
    f = open(filename, 'r')
    read = f.read()
    f.close()
    return read
```
