---
title: 3.1 Implementation
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

For the sake of example let us use this poorly written SQL query.

```python
def getPage(self, pageId):
    db = database_con()
    cur = db.execute('SELECT pageId, title, content FROM pages WHERE pageId=' + pageId)
    return cur.fetchall()
```
 
Can we spot the coding mistake?  
  
The **pageId** parameter in this code example is under the control of a user and is directly concatenated into this SQL statement. This renders the SQL query displayed above susceptible to SQL injection attacks.Now, in our hypothetical story, we would most likely never exceed  pages that are being published by this specific application.

The first solution could be something like displayed below. Although not the ideal solution, we do want to have a centralized means of doing validity checks, instead of having separate functions all over your code. But it helps you get the gist of the story.

```python
def getPage(self, pageId):
    db = database_con()
    filtered = validate_input(pageId)
    cur = db.execute('SELECT pageId, title, content FROM pages WHERE pageId=' + filtered)
    return cur.fetchall()

def validate_input(input_string):
    max_length = 100
    if len(input_string) > max_length:
        raise ValueError("Input exceeds the maximum length of {} characters".format(max_length))
    # Proceed with the rest of the processing, now knowing the input has a valid length
    # ...
```

There are of course also other methods to limit the # of characters being used by a parameter.  
such as in the example below:

```python
# Data validation and settings management using Python type annotations
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class MyPydanticModel(BaseModel):
    pageId: int = Field(..., max_length=5)
```

`---`

```c#
// EF code first
public class Pages
{
    [MaxLength(5)]
    public number pageId { get; set; }
}
```

Now, an attacker could still trigger a SQL error in both scenarios. But the attacker will not be able to deliver a full payload to perform a successful injection. Let's look at a classic  payloadthat is used in these types of scenarios to read arbitrary data from the database:

`union select username,password from users`

This payload will already be cut short at: 

`union`

As a result, the SQL query is still vulnerable to SQL injection. But exploitation is no longer possible!

As an additional layer, you could add to this also the "type" check to only allow integers to go into the query and you have an even more solid solution.

These defense mechanisms do not take away from the fact that when you start to write raw SQL queries you need to use a standardized library that allows you to write queries with `Parameterized Strings` and _prepared statements_ But that is what security is all about, making a layered defense as fail saves when things do not work as expected.

in raw SQL a safe parameterized statement would look a little like this:

```python
def getPage(self, pageId):
    db = database_con()
    sql_select_query = """SELECT pageId, title, content FROM pages WHERE pageId=?"""
    cur = db.execute(sql_select_query, (pageId,))
    return cur.fetchall()
```

