---
title: Authorization
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---
Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR) are a type of security vulnerability that occurs when a web application exposes a reference to an internal implementation object, such as a file, database key, or directory, directly to users. This exposure allows users to manipulate these references to gain unauthorized access to data. IDOR vulnerabilities typically arise when an application uses easily guessable or enumerable identifiers (IDs) that are directly exposed in URLs or form parameters. Attackers can exploit these vulnerabilities by modifying such IDs to access data belonging to other users, manipulate system behaviors, or even gain administrative privileges, making it a critical vector for security breaches.

IDOR refers to situations where an application provides direct access to objects based on user-supplied input. This security flaw exists because the application fails to perform adequate authorization checks when serving these objects to users. For example, if an application allows users to view messages by accessing a URL like `example.com/messages?id=123`, an attacker might change `id=123` to `id=124` to view someone else's messages. This simple manipulation can lead to significant security incidents, especially when sensitive information is involved.

We have specifically chosen to address Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR) in this course due to its prevalence and critical impact in security assessments. In almost every penetration test or security review we conduct, IDOR vulnerabilities emerge as a common flaw. This recurring discovery indicates a widespread oversight in access control and object reference management across various applications and platforms. By focusing on IDOR, we aim to highlight the risks associated with this vulnerability and empower developers and security professionals with the knowledge and tools needed to detect and mitigate it effectively, thereby enhancing the overall security posture of their applications.