---
title: 6.3 Testing Methodologies
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

Testing for IDOR involves a series of methodical steps designed to uncover how an application handles user-supplied input and how it controls access to resources. The first step is to map out all the endpoints of the application that accept user input, particularly those that directly relate to object identifiers like IDs in URLs or form parameters. Then, testers should attempt to manipulate these identifiers to see if the application improperly exposes data or functionality. This includes changing, incrementing, or decrementing IDs to test for unauthorized access to resources. This approach generally takes more than one account to be able to test because we are ultimately testing to reach unauthorized objects.

Both manual and automated methods are essential for thorough testing. Manual testing allows for nuanced understanding and exploration of complex authorization issues that automated tools might miss. Conversely, automated tools can quickly scan large applications to find instances of potential IDOR by systematically modifying request parameters and analyzing the responses. Combining both methods ensures a comprehensive approach to identifying vulnerabilities.

A good way to go about this in an autmomated fashion is to use the `Burpsuite Autorize` plugin.

In this course, we focus on understanding and mitigating IDOR vulnerabilities rather than providing in-depth tutorials on specific tools such as Burp Suite. While Burp Suite is an essential tool for web application security testing, detailed instructions on setting up and using Burp Suite are beyond the scope of this training. The internet is replete with excellent resources, tutorials, and guides that can help you start utilizing Burp Suite effectively. 

For those interested in learning more about Burp Suite or enhancing their skills with the tool, we recommend visiting the official [PortSwigger website](https://portswigger.net/burp). Additionally, the [Burp Suite Authorize Extension](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/f9bbac8c4acf4aefa4d7dc92a991af2f) page provides a great starting point for understanding how to extend Burp Suite's capabilities, particularly for testing authorization and IDOR issues.

Another good resource is, [this](https://www.blackhatethicalhacking.com/articles/maximizing-idor-detection-with-burp-suites-autorize/). This blog dives into how to apply Autorize for IDOR detection.