---
title: Threat-modeling
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

Threat modeling works to identify, communicate, and understand threats and mitigations within the context of protecting something of value.

A threat model is a structured representation of all the information that affects the security of an application. In essence, it is a view of the application and its environment through the lens of security.

Threat modeling can be applied to a wide range of things, including software, applications, systems, networks, distributed systems, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and business processes.

A threat model typically includes:

- Description of the subject to be modeled
- Assumptions that can be checked or challenged in the future as the threat landscape changes
- Potential threats to the system
- Actions that can be taken to mitigate each threat
- A way of validating the model and threats, and verifying of success of actions taken

Threat modeling is a process for capturing, organizing, and analyzing all of this information. Applied to software, it enables informed decision-making about application security risks. In addition to producing a model, typical threat modeling efforts also produce a prioritized list of security improvements to the concept, requirements, design, or implementation of an application.

In 2020 a group of threat modeling practitioners, researchers and authors got together to write the Threat Modeling Manifesto in order to "...share a distilled version of our collective threat modeling knowledge in a way that should inform, educate, and inspire other practitioners to adopt threat modeling as well as improve security and privacy during development". The Manifesto contains values and principles connected to the practice and adoption of Threat Modeling, as well as identified patterns and anti-patterns to facilitate it.