---
title: 5.5 World smallest Threatmodeling course
author: Riccardo ten Cate
date: 03-12-2024
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

Adam Shostack is a security expert and author, who has created a YouTube course called "The World's Shortest Threat Modeling Course." In this course, Adam provides a concise and focused overview of the basics of threat modeling. The course is designed for people who are new to threat modeling and want to understand the fundamental concepts and techniques.

The topics that Adam will discuss in this course include:

* Introduction to Threat Modeling: Overview of what threat modeling is, why it's important, and how it can be used to improve the security of software systems.

* The Threat Modeling Process: An overview of the steps involved in the threat modeling process, including defining the system, identifying assets, determining threats, and developing countermeasures.

* Threat Modeling Techniques: A discussion of various threat modeling techniques, such as STRIDE, PASTA, and Trike, and how they can be used to identify potential security risks.

* Threat Modeling Tools: An overview of some of the most popular threat modeling tools, including Microsoft Threat Modeling Tool, IriusRisk, and PQL.

* Integrating Threat Modeling into the Development Process: Discussion on how to integrate threat modeling into the software development lifecycle and make it a routine part of the development process.

By the end of this course, you should have a good understanding of the basics of threat modeling and be able to apply this knowledge to improve the security of software systems.

You can find the whole playlist on youtube [Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2pvprvsr1lo&list=PLCVhBqLDKoOOZqKt74QI4pbDUnXSQo0nf)